discuss media journal assignment
neilson report
prepare them for media placement exam

tell students to read articles for monday & wednesday 

send prof. conway the two questions by next monday. 


Media Literacy:
The ability to access, analyze, evaluate, create, and act using all forms of communication.

Access: digital divide

analyze: The foundation of media analysis is acknowledging that all media is constructed with a purpose and a particular point of view. 
Renee Hobbs: 

1. who created this message and what is the purpose?
2. What techniques does it use to attract and hold attention?
3. what lifestyles, values and points of view does it depict?
4. How might different people interpret this message?
5. What is omitted, or left out?

evaluate: quality and credibility
1. Relevance
2. Accuracy (What is the source? citing scientists? or any authority?)
3. Bias (some one's perspective)
4. Reliability (How trustworthy a publisher or author is based on the entirety of their work)

Create media by yourself

Act on all of the skills you've acquired. 



Media Literacy in the future

- data literacy
- algorithmic literacy

Data literacy deals with understanding and analyzing data.

What is data:
Information about the world that is stored in a specific format. 

Algorithmic literacy:
- filter buble: the media world we create where we only see and interact with things and people we already like. With or without our knowledge. 
- Algorithmic literacy is knowing that any information you see online is only one slice of the pie, and one that's been cut specifically for you.

Skepticism:
- Being Skeptical means approaching everything by questionning its truth. Every ad, every song, every book, every article. Everything. 
- Follow your perpection of bias and textual analysis skills.










